- [Instructor] We notice that our Docker image
was 489 megabytes, and that is even when we use
OpenJDK8-jre as the base image.
Because it contains a lot of JDK functionality
that is not needed by our application.
JDK9 introduced module systems that allows you
to selectively include the functionality needed
for your application, and leave everything else behind.
We'll look at how the Docker image size
for our Java application can be reduced,
using the tools provided by JDK9 onwards.
Now jlink is a tool that we're going to use
and that is available in JDK9 onwards
and it allows to assemble and optimize a set of modules
and their dependencies into a custom runtime image,
or a custom JRE for your application.
Now for that, we're going to use a setup here
and let's walk through that setup a bit.
What we have done is we have created
an Ubuntu instance on EC2,
we have logged into the instance,
we have installed the default JDK.
When we look at the default JDK version, that is JDK10,
which is beyond JDK9 and so that works for us.
Of course we have cloned the repo, built the application,
installed Docker in there, and built the Docker image,
so that we can compare the two Docker image sizes.
So that's kind of cool.
With that setup, let's go to our terminal
where our EC2 instance is already logged into.
So here we are.
I'm going to type java -version
and that is indeed OpenJDK version 10.
Now, jlink tool operates on jar files,
and our application generally, the war file.
So we're going to copy the war file to the jar file.
And the command for that is in our GitHub repo.
Let's copy the first command here
and drop it in this directory.
So my greeting war is copied to greeting jar.
Let's copy the jlink command
and drop it here.
Once I give this command,
jlink is saying create a new directory
by the name myjre, add the modules,
and in turn, it's also using a tool, jdeps,
which says, okay, give me all the dependencies
for a particular jar file.
So it's saying print module dependencies
for greeting.jar and in addition,
these are all the modules that are needed for Spring Boot.
So essentially, you are creating
a collective list of modules needed
for your application and its dependencies.
So if we look at our directory here,
I have a myjre directory created for us
because that's exactly where my custom runtime is available.
So the next thing that we're going to do is
look at our Dockerfile.jre here.
If I look at this, first of all,
it's using debian:9-slim as my base image
because I have a custom JRE, everything baked in,
I don't need to go anything fancy.
I'm copying my target greeting war,
copying my custom JRE, usual ports,
set up the new directory,
and then fire up the Java or the JVM,
this time from my custom directory,
and then it goes to greeting.war, of course.
Let's go ahead and then build the image.
Let's copy the command for that.
All we're saying is sudo docker image build
to build the image.
We're using a specific file Dockerfile.jre.
Remember the default Docker file name is Dockerfile.
Then is my tag and then my context.
So let's build the Docker image.
And now, if we look at what Docker images
do we have locally here,
you can see the size difference is significant.
As opposed to 489 megabytes that we were getting earlier,
now we're getting 160 megabyte image.
So that is pretty cool actually.
So now, let's use this image and launch our container.
Copy the command for that.
In our terminal, let's drop the command.
And our container is running.
It's running in a detached mode,
forwarding to 8080 on the local host,
to 8080 on the container.
Let's try to access our application now
and we get the same response back.
So that is pretty cool.
So in this section, we looked at
how we can create a custom JRE for your application,
package it up as a Docker image,
and then access the response back from it.
So same Java application but now using custom JRE
and a Docker image.